README for Thesaurus KDataTool
Daniel Naber (daniel.naber@t-online.de), 2001-11-19

This software offers two different functions. Note that it only
supports English, even if the user interface may appear in a
different language:

1. A small thesaurus, build from a subset of WordNet. Many not so
common words have been removed, very few words have been added
(function words and word specific to KDE). Note that this doesn't
distinguish between parts of speech, e.g. verbs and nouns are mixed
up in the lists of words. Also the frontend won't separate the
different meanings most words can have. If you need this, use the
WordNet frontend. Please do *not* report bugs to the WordNet people
but to KDE.

2. A frontend to WordNet 1.7. WordNet is "an online lexical reference
system whose design is inspired by current psycholinguistic theories
of human lexical memory."  The frontend offers nearly all options
which are available on the command line. It calls the 'wn' binary. To
use this you have to download WordNet (11MB):
http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/


Technically, this is a KDataTool, which means that it will typically
add an action to a context menu, in this case: "Show related words".
You can see this in KWord when you click the right mouse button over
a word or over selected text.

The Thesaurus KDataTool just calls the WordNet binary "wn", which has
to be in your path. The advantage is that there are no dependencies
at compile time, as there would be if we used the WordNet library.
